We can't talk about channel cleanup without considering the other channel.
The other channel really is not a channel.
It's just a catch-all for any sessions that do not
match any of the default or custom channel definitions.
Ideally, you want the other channel to be as close to zero as possible.
In this case, we don't have
a huge number of sessions that are going into the other channel.
But there still are 0.75 percent of sessions that are ending up in other.
So, it's certainly enough for us to investigate.
How are we going to clean out the other channel?
In some cases, we'll be able to change
the campaign parameters going forward to match one of
the channel definitions or we could potentially
deal with it within the channel definitions themselves.
We can revise default channel definitions.
We could revise custom channel definitions that we've already
created or we could create a new custom channel.
If we add source medium as a secondary dimension
to the channels report and we filter on other for the primary dimension,
we start to see some of the culprits.
In the case of not set,
this means that UTM medium is not being passed with other campaign parameters.
We would probably just want to correct the campaign parameters themselves.
What's going on here?
Why isn't the source medium value matching the paid search channel definition?
If we go back to our channel definitions,
we see that the conditions for paid search are media matches regular
expression cpc or ppc or paid search all lowercase.
Capital CPC would not match this rule.
So, our two approaches could be to either change UTM medium to lowercase cpc
or if for some reason we could not change UTM medium to lowercase cpc,
we would also have the choice to edit a default channel definition.
We'd be able to go into
the paid search default channel definition and add another condition defined rules,
system define channel matches paid search or medium exactly matches uppercase CPC.
There is a special note regarding our uppercase CPC medium value.
Even if we added a lowercase medium filter to our view,
this would not help channel matching.
If we were lower casing the medium value,
this filter would be applied after channel matching has already occurred.
In the case of prospecting as a medium,
the prospecting channel that we set up in the previous example would actually capture
all of these sessions because one of the rules was medium exactly matches prospecting.
In the case of medium equals survey,
this seems like a specialized click-through.
We'd also want to create a survey custom channel.
Just to emphasize the overall procedure of channel customization and matching,
remember that you control your channel customizations as an implementation step.
Then, you can control your campaign parameters on
an ongoing basis to match the channels as needed.
It's hard to overemphasize the benefits of
clean acquisition data on the campaigning and on the channel end.
First, at a basic level,
it cleans up your acquisition reports.
Since you can apply the default channel grouping to
the multi-channel funnel reports that Patrick we'll discuss in an upcoming lesson,
we also get the benefit of clean acquisition data in the MCF reports.
For any type of attribution modelling,
clean acquisition data is going to be critical.
Similarly, for any advanced analysis that involves acquisition data,
the original data quality will be key.
As we saw in a previous lesson,
integration with other data sources including CRM data will help for analysis such as
customer lifetime value by
original marketing channel and also re-qualification by original marketing channel.
Now, Patrick and I have gone through a lot of detail about
campaign tracking and channel customization in the last two lessons.
It's important to understand that there's not
one correct way to approach campaigns and channel customization.
But you do want to decide on a way that makes the most sense
for you and your stakeholders and to stick with it.
There are very few organizations that
actually have a great handle on their acquisition data.
So, if you can make sure to define the custom channels that make the most sense for
you and then maintain your campaign tracking on an ongoing basis in a coherent way,
you're going to be in a great position for analysis and
optimization and you'll be at a competitive advantage.